- [Instructor] In Java EE 8,
the JAX-RS client receives support
for the Reactive programming style
which provides developers with a more succinct way
of handling asynchronous calls.
Under the Reactive approach,
we avoid the use of callbacks instead opting
to use a completion stage that allows a chain of stages
to be completed asynchronously.
Let's take a look at using the Reactive programming style
by working with the JAX-RS Reactive client.
So we won't need to change anything
within our resource.
We're going to call the asynchronous resource method
that we created previously
but if we take a look at our InventoryService,
you'll notice that we added a new method,
the reactiveGetQuantityMethod
and it returns an object of type completion stage
which is generically typed to specify the InventoryItem
as the generic parameter.
The completion stage allows us
to chain different calls together asynchronously.
If you take a look at our RemoteInventoryService class,
you'll see that we have provided a stub
for the reactiveGetQuantity method.
And it's really simple to make an asynchronous call.
I'm just going to copy the code we used
to create the asynchronous client.
And then I'm going to paste it into the body of that method
and all we need to do is switch the async method
with the rx method and we've gone Reactive.
Okay, so this is how we make the Reactive call
with the JAX-RS client.
Now, it's going to change a little bit
in how we handle the return object
from that call, so let's go over to our backing bean
and currently we are using our async method
but we need to change that up.
So let's do a little bit of work in here
and I'll just leave the async call there
so you can kind of compare and contrast
and then we'll clean it up when we're done.
Okay, so the first thing we're going to do
is create a CountDownLatch
and that's so we can keep track of the number
of calls that we expect to make
as well as the number of calls
that we receive back
so we're just going to create a CountDownLatch
with the constructor supplying an argument of one.
Okay and the next thing that we need to do
is use the inventoryService
and the reactive method that we created
and we'll pass in the itemId
so we can get the appropriate catalog item
and then you'll notice, we just start to chain method calls
so there's the thenApply method
and that's going to be executed once
we get the response back
from the API
and we can provide a function here
that will be executed once we get that response
so it's going to return us the inventoryItem
and then what we're going to do is get the quantity
from that item and then we're going to go ahead
and we'll do this on a separate line
so it's easy to read.
Then we're going to go ahead and chain another call here.
So we're going to say thenAccept
and that indicates it's our last call
and then we provide another method,
so we got the quantity
and we're passing that over to this next method
where we're going to go ahead and set the quantity
on our backing bean
and we can pass the quantity in
and let's just print that out
so we can see it in the console.
We'll get the quantity from the backing bean.
And now we call our latch
and tell it to countDown.
And then finally we just add our semicolon
and from there, I'm going to add a little bit more debugging.
We'll keep some of this
so let's clear out our asynchronous calls
since we're going Reactive here.
And what we'll do is keep the completed request
and then we do have to finally on the latch call await
at the bottom of our method
so that it waits to hear the CountDown.
Okay, so this is an example of using the completion stage
and the way we can chain different calls
when we receive a response from an API.
Let's go ahead and we can run this example.
So there our application's started up.
I'll start opening a browser
and then we'll go back to our console here.
Let me clear it out.
And then we'll get to work here creating a product.
So there the product was created
and then we're going to go ahead
and access the details.
Once again, here we're blocking
but you notice that it completed the request
and then it came back and we got our quantity.
Okay, so that was an example
of the Reactive style of programming
that is now supported within JAX-RS.